Feat/rpc methods WIP (#71)
kadena-io/KIPs: kip-0038.md

---
KIP: '0038'
Title: kadena_getAccounts_v2 API
Author: Danillo Felixdaal and Bart Huijgen
Status: Draft
Type: Standard
Category: Interface
Created: 2025-02-17
---

# kadena_getAccounts_v2 API

## Abstract

This proposal introduces the `kadena_getAccounts_v2` method, which enables wallets to provide a standardized list of accounts they manage. By implementing this method, decentralized applications (dApps) can retrieve and present to users the available accounts, allowing users to select the desired account for creating and signing transactions.

## Motivation

The `kadena_getAccounts_v2` method improved on the previous by allowing extra features while maintaining backwards compatibility. This method allows to retrieve all accounts managed by a wallet as well as receive per fungible and per chain guard information. This is required for accounts that allow rotating keysets and vanity name accounts.

## Specification

### Method Definition

**Method Name:** `kadena_getAccounts_v2`

### Request Parameters

```typescript
interface GetAccountsRequest {
  accounts?: Array<{

>     publicKey: string;
>     contract: string;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    publicKey?: string;
    contract?: string;
```
See also comment on KIP-0037

  }
}
```

### Response

```typescript
interface AccountInfo {
  accountName: string
  fungibleContract: string
  chainAccounts?: Array<{
    chainId: ChainId

>     guard: {

Reviewer 2: same thing about guard here

Author: @barthuijgen

2. Error Handling:

- MUST return a clear and descriptive error message if account information cannot be retrieved.
- Errors may be due to configuration issues, unsupported networks, or other internal errors.
- The error response MUST conform to the JSON-RPC error object specification.

# Examples

### Example request

```json
{
  "id": 1,
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "method": "kadena_getAccounts_v2",
  "params": {}
}
```

### Example response

```json
{
  "id": 1,
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "result": [
    {
      "accountName": "k:35d381861d9a6cfb84bef47930b386d1a3b4f3742c8e87772a9e6b43c0e7b5f7",
      "fungibleContract": "coin",
      "chainAccounts": [
        {
          "chainId": "0",
          "guard": {
            "keys": [
              "35d381861d9a6cfb84bef47930b386d1a3b4f3742c8e87772a9e6b43c0e7b5f7"
            ],
            "pred": "keys-all"
          }
        },
        {
          "chainId": "1",
          "guard": {
            "keys": [
              "35d381861d9a6cfb84bef47930b386d1a3b4f3742c8e87772a9e6b43c0e7b5f7"
            ],
            "pred": "keys-all"
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  ]

> }

Reviewer: Should we include a second contract in the example?

```

### Error Response

```json
{
  "id": 1,
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "error": {
    "code": -32603,
    "message": "Internal server error"
  }
}
```

### Response details

Accounts should be returned per fungible contract, if the wallet knows about multiple fungibles held by one account then return the account for each one.

If a wallet only works with single accounts, this method should return a single account.

### Request by public key

> kip-0017 defines `kadena_getAccounts_v1`, which uses a public key received from walletconnect to retrieve accounts. The v2 method maintains compatibility with this approach.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[KIP-0017](https://github.com/kadena-io/KIPs/blob/master/kip-0017.md) defines `kadena_getAccounts_v1`, which uses a public key received from walletconnect to retrieve accounts. The v2 method maintains compatibility with this approach.

```

KIP: '0038'
Title: kadena_getAccounts_v2 API
Author: Danillo Felixdaal, Bart Huijgen and Albert Groothedde
Status: Draft
Type: Standard
Category: Interface
Created: 2025-02-17
---

# kadena_getAccounts_v2 API

## Abstract

This KIP standardizes the `kadena_getAccounts_v2` method, which enables wallets
to provide a standardized list of accounts they manage. By implementing this
method, decentralized applications (dApps) can retrieve and present to users the
available accounts, allowing users to select the desired account(s) for creating
and signing transactions.

This RPC method allows wallets to return accounts that aren't yet minted
on-chain, but are managed by the wallet. Therefore the guard is on the level of
account name, and not on the level of chain account.

## Motivation

The `kadena_getAccounts_v2` method allows retrieval of all accounts managed by a
wallet along with per fungible and per-chain guard information.

---

## Specification

### Method Definition

**Method Name:** `kadena_getAccounts_v2`

### Request Parameters

No parameters are required.

### Response

The method **MUST** return an array of account objects, even if the wallet only
supports a single account.

> Note that the response can have multiple accounts with the same `accountName`.

Reviewer 3: There have been additions to the documentation below this statement that address different scenarios where the same account name can be present (different guards and/or different contracts). Resolving this conversation thread.

> The `guard` is what makes each unique. This allows for dapps to use non-minted

Reviewer 3: > The `guard` is what makes each unique.

Is this statement accurate? 

There could be an account `test1` governed by `guardA` and also an account `test2` that is also governed by `guardA`. 

This could happen when working with vanity accounts or accounts associated with contracts that don't enforce principaled (e.g. that account name must correspond to its associated guard) account names.

Reviewer: In that case they don't have the same `accountName`, right?

Reviewer 3: The rewording clears it up. Resolving comment.

accounts. When an account isn't minted, the `chainAccounts` field will be an
empty array.

```typescript
interface AccountInfo {
  accountName: string;
  networkId: string;

>   contract: string;

Reviewer: Yes, when accountName is used for multiple contracts, it's passed multiple times

>   contract: string;

Reviewer 3: I see this addition to the documentation in previous section that addresses this recommendation:
>Also accounts on different `contract`s can have the same `accountName`, regardless of the guard.

Resolving this conversation thread.

  guard: {
    keys: string[];
    pred: string;
  };
  chainAccounts: string[];
}
```

### Error Responses

In case of failure, the wallet **MUST** return an error object that conforms to
the
[JSON-RPC 2.0 specification](https://www.jsonrpc.org/specification#error_object).
The error object includes an error code, a message, and optionally additional
data.

```typescript
interface ErrorResponse {
  id: number;
  jsonrpc: '2.0';
  error: {
    code: number;
    message: string;
    data?: object;
  };
}
```

#### Error Types

| Code   | Message                          |
| ------ | -------------------------------- |
| -32603 | Internal server error            |
| -32008 | No account information available |

### Behavior Requirements

1. **Account Information Retrieval:**

   - **MUST** return accurate and up-to-date information for all accounts
     managed by the wallet.
   - If a wallet supports only a single active account, the method **MUST**
     return an array containing that single account.
   - The returned account information **MUST** include all relevant details as
     defined in the response interface.

> 2. **Error Handling:**

Reviewer 3: no longer relevant because this error type was removed from KIP 38. Resolving comment

   - **MUST** return a clear and descriptive error message if account
     information cannot be retrieved.

>    - Errors may result from configuration issues, unsupported networks, or other

Reviewer 3: No longer relevant after re-write of section:
>    - By default the Internal server error should be used if for any reason account
     information can not be obtained.
>  - Custom errors **SHOULD** be used to give more detail about the cause of the error.

Resolving comment.

---
KIP: "0038"
Title: kadena_getAccounts_v2 API
Author: Danillo Felixdaal, Bart Huijgen and Albert Groothedde
Status: Draft
Type: Standard
Category: Interface
Created: 2025-02-17
---

# kadena_getAccounts_v2 API

## Abstract

This KIP standardizes the `kadena_getAccounts_v2` method, which enables wallets

> to provide a standardized list of accounts they manage. By implementing this

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
to provide a standardized list of accounts they manage. By using this RPC
```

> to provide a standardized list of accounts they manage. By implementing this
> method, decentralized applications (dApps) can retrieve and present to users the
> available accounts, allowing users to select the desired account(s) for creating
> and signing transactions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
to provide a standardized list of accounts they manage. By using this RPC
method, decentralized applications (dApps) can retrieve and present to users their
available accounts and, thus, allow users to select the desired account(s) for creating
and signing transactions.
```

### Request Parameters

```typescript
interface GetAccountsRequest {
  accounts?: Array<{
    publicKey: string;

>     contract: string;

Reviewer: The same thing like above. Also optional. We could add this one later if we want to
